---
title: "LCP 100"
date: "Mar 8 - Mar 15, 2026"
week: 11
---

LCP 100. \
gitdot will have an LCP of a 100ms @p99.

Before I explain what that means, and how, I’d like to touch upon why. From the get go, one of our primary objectives has been speed. We want gitdot to be really really fast.

You might ask why. \
Fast is better than slow, but for most, GitHub is already fast enough. \
So why not just do, that which is practical to do, and move on?

My honest answer is a personal one. \
We like building things well. And building something knowing it could be better, much much better, makes us feel shitty. So even though impractical at times, doing things well is simply who we are.

And I do think — it may matter quite a bit. \
The word better is often equated to the word more.

A product with more features is better. \
A website with an AI copilot is “better” than one without because you can talk to it. \
But while that might be true for some, I disagree with the philosophy as a whole.

It is better to do few things and to do them well. \
And speed is one of those things where if you do it very well, the form of the product changes.

> “0.1 second is about the limit for having the user feel that the system is reacting instantaneously, meaning that no special feedback is necessary except to display the result.” - Jakob Nielsen, Usability Engineering (1993).


If every page loads in a 100ms or less, the design changes. \
There are no loading indicators, there are no spinners, there are no glittering skeleton bodies or streaming chunks of text.
It’s just there, instant and responsive to every action that you take.

Fast is a feeling. \
A fast product feels _different_ than a slow one. \
And as logical as we are, it isn’t as if we don’t feel.

So here’s how we’ll do it.

&nbsp;

## Step 1: Metrics
I love metrics. Few things give me more joy than metrics. \
I also love on-call. A strange thing, I know, and something to touch upon later.

But for one, in any optimization endeavor, it is most important to define the metric. \
The objective that you will optimize for and what will guide your experimentation.

The choice of wasn’t particularly hard in our use-case. Profiling websites is a well-known endeavor and in this case, we saw no reason to invent our own and go beyond [core web vitals](https://web.dev/articles/vitals).

There are three core web vitals that Google recommends you optimize for:
1. LCP: Largest Contentful Paint
2. INP: Interaction to Next Paint
3. CLS: Cumulative Layout Shift

Each have nuance with how they’re computed, but as a rule, they attempt to measure user-facing perceived performance: what the user actually sees.
That means that a user on a slower machine and/or a slower network will have worse web vitals than someone without.

LCP is the primary metric that we optimize for, and as a one-sentence summarization, it tracks the time from the browser initiating an HTTP request to a page to the “largest content” being painted upon it. It is meant as a rough indicator to say “this page is done loading, the primary content is here.”

For our website in particular, the metric is a bit redundant as our goal is to load the _entire_ page at once. That is, our FCP (First Contentful Paint) and LCP (Largest Contentful Paint) is the same. But typically, the reason for the differentiation in the two is to account for websites that may have things like a static header (which is fast to load) and the rest of the page (which is slow to load).

INP attempts to measure the “interactivity” of a page, that is, how long does something take to paint when a button is clicked or a search bar is triggered. INP itself is computed as “the interaction with the worst latency” on a page, which is the single longest duration of the set of event handlers that drive the interaction. This metric is also a bit odd for us, as most things on the site happen near instantly (whether that is a new navigation, most latent, or a dialog popping up).

Lastly, CLS measures how much the page “shifts” during page loads. That is, if you write your website poorly and have content stream in that displaces other content, it is jarring for the user and CLS will account for it as a layout shift. This is common with pretty much every website if you hard refresh it, things like profile icons loading in can cause it, font flickering, sidebar scrolling and so forth.

As another design principle, I really dislike having any CLS. \
I dislike senseless animations and I hate when things shift around as even the slightest shift is incredibly noticeable to the user.

So our CLS will be 0. \
Nothing will shift and nothing will change; that absence of is what we will strive for.


For reference, Google defines the following as good core web vitals:
1. LCP: 2.5 seconds
2. INP: 200 milliseconds
3. CLS: 0.1

Our goal is the following:
1. LCP: 100 milliseconds
2. INP: 10 milliseconds
3. CLS: 0


(yes, I’m aware that these are ambitious, but what are we if not that).

&nbsp;

And a few other random notes:
1. Core web vitals do not work for SPAs / PWAs.
    1. They do not account for “soft page” navigations which are the bulk of the loads that most users apply (e.g., subsequent clicks after landing upon a page) and a few metrics themselves tend to lose meaning as they are tracked intra-session when they should really be reset after each page navigation. As a fix, we manually instrument LCP for subsequent pages in our Next.js app and only record CLS for initial page loads. Note that there’s a Chrome [origin trial](https://developer.chrome.com/origintrials/#/view_trial/21392098230009857) that attempts to fix this.
2. There are other core web vitals as well
    1. TTFB is the primary one (time to first byte), which is the first byte of the HTTP response that the browser reads but before the browser actually paints. For reasons that are beyond me as of now, there is some seemingly variable delay between HTTP streams finishing and FCP firing in a browser (likely inherent delay in the event loop even with a simple index.html page?), which in effect also means that our TTFB really needs to return in 50ms for a FCP of 100ms to be feasible.
3. There are (many) other metrics as well
    1. I am a strong believer in the power of high-cardinality metrics: of having many metrics on many things. We want instrumentation on our API calls, database calls, git clients, and the ability to slice and dice by things like repo, region, and user. That’s typically very expensive and a big no for most observability platforms (cardinality kills), so we prototyped an integration with Clickhouse and Grafana to enable doing this cheaply at scale.

&nbsp;

## Step 2: Do it.
I have tried many things this week. \
I have realized that I do not know how the World Wide Web works and also find it hard to believe that many people do.

Browsers are an awfully complex piece of software and the web is simply so shitty. It’s funny to read about some of these WICG protocols to realize that they were written in 2016 and still not fully interoperable across browsers and certainly not most sites. And a bit humbling to realize how much it is that we take for granted.

Anywho, here’s where I ended up. \
First, I ran a lot of tests and wrote down a set of assumptions (copy-pasted from our internal docs):
```
assumptions:
1. db calls are latent — 15 ms rtt in same-region
2. git calls can be latent, but are usually fast — 10ms
3. cdns can be used, but not egregiously, e.g., cardinality of say tens of thousands of assets
4. repos are at most 50MB uncompressed file size, e.g., (du -sh * in a git repo)
5. server-side promises and serialization likely occur “some overhead” but are negligible ish
6. client-side browser caching can be used
7. client’s machines are relatively powerful (e.g., modern ish CPUs)
8. authorization will require a db lookup
9. diffs and syntax highlighting are compute bound
10. ttfb → fcp delay is roughly 50ms (can be seemingly larger or shorter?)
```

Which led to the conclusion that our critical path is simply too slow. \
With a typical path of:
```
Browser → Next.js server → GCP LB → gitdot-server → gitdot-authz → gitdot-db and/or gitdot-nfs
```

It may be possible to achieve a TTFB of 50ms with co-location, Redis caching, and good programming, but it is unrealistic a mandate to impose on ourselves for every page. It is too limiting of a constraint for us to program against. 

So while _most_ pages should strive to be as fast and possible (and has to be), this implies an inevitability: we need to cache.

There’s two approaches to that:
1. Pre-generate HTML for every page
2. Create a client-side database of REST resources

The first is what I alluded to a while ago. \
It is the thing that brought me to Next.js: the idea of SSG (static site generation) and ISR (incremental site regeneration). Nowadays I’m admittedly less bullish on Next.js after digging into its internals, I still do think the fundamental idea is sound. There is no reason a web server is not a file server of a bunch of HTML pages.

The second is what offline-first apps do. \
The main idea is that we can replicate the REST resources that we rely upon on server-side rendering client-side and pre-fetch assets for a repo in advance. Most resources aren’t that big and compress well (e.g., code is text), and by leveraging client-side databases through OPFS (Origin Private File System), we can also enable rich SQL syntax on querying. This lets us have a unified interface for fetching data, whether that’s through the server or the client. There’s a little bit more nuance here (e.g., we replicate resources to session storage to avoid async flicker), but the gist of it is pre-fetch and cache.

But really, we need to do *both*, given that we want our LCP to apply to initial and subsequent page loads.
Whether you are clicking on [gitdot.io](https://gitdot.io/) for the first-time from a Hacker News thread or it’s a tab that’s forever open in your Chrome, both should be incredibly fast. 

So we can do that, and we can leverage the fact that if we know what links are most likely to be initial page loads (e.g., likely repo roots as opposed to subpaths), we can use CDNs to cache. 

CDNs are very useful as they also let us store a minified set of repository resources that are unlikely to change (e.g., files / commits), which enables fast interactivity for pages.

So in effect, there are three paths:
1. Happy path
    1. Client has loaded repository resources into their client-side database and all subsequent page loads are fast as data is fetched from OPFS sqlite / session storage.
    2. Example path: [gitdot.io/django/files/src/python/server.py]()
2. CDN path
    1. Client hits a top-level path for the first time, be it from gitdot.io or an external link. CDNs are fast and the HTML page body itself is minimal
    2. Example paths: [gitdot.io/django](), [gitdot.io/react](), [gitdot.io/linux]()
3. Sad path
    1. Client hits a subfolder path for the first time, be it from gitdot.io or an external link. CDN is not cached and we hit the critical path, and FCP is likely 2-300ms.
    2. Example path: [gitdot.io/django/files/src/python/server.py]()

I’m abstracting over a few bits of complexity here, such as how we enforce consistency in client-side and server-side schemas, how we do authentication / authorization very quickly, and how we reconcile server-side serialized React promises and client-side async calls, but the short of it is it is a lot of engineering.

I’ll do a proper write-up once the dust settles, but on the bright side, things seem to be working :)

Thank you. \
—baepaul
