---
title: "Back."
date: "May 17 - May 24, 2026"
week: 19
---

I'm back.

I was in Korea for the last two weeks. \
I did work, as you'd expect, but I was less present than I'd hoped to be.

Mikkel told me to stop writing code because it was all shitty. \
And as healthy as my relationship with work is now, it seems that I still have room to grow.

&nbsp;

Work is hard. \
It is hard and it should be hard. \
It requires you to think, it requires you to try, and it requires you to be brave.

Not all days will I feel up to that. \
But the habit I have is instead of recognizing that and resting, I do my penance instead and punch the clock.

Which inevitably leads to me doing some kind of "work" that is less important, but still valuable, and seemingly locally optimal. But yeah, I know that's bullshit.

There's only a few things that really count. \
Any action that delays that, even if it is "work", is just procrastination in disguise.

So perhaps, in a radical move of self-respect, I'll be the founder who does take days off.

&nbsp;

But with that said, I'm starting to feel awfully brave again.

Much of this year was me and Mikkel doing whatever we wanted to do. \
That felt nice, especially after we spent a long time doing things we didn't really want to do, and an even longer time not knowing what we wanted to do.

We know what that is now. \
It isn't anything grand, nor is it particularly noble, but it's true to us. \
It's building software for people.

&nbsp;

So yeah, it's about damn time we try. \
It's about time that we really try and put ourselves out there.

I'm feeling myself a bit too. \
I'm excited to try, grateful for the opportunity to, and feeling just strangely confident that we'll succeed.

In the future, the content of these posts may shift a bit. \
Expect a bit more focused developer logs, as we take more focused bets week-by-week, and expect just a bit of shitposting too.

Thank you, \
—baepaul.
