---
title: "A sick day"
date: "Mar 1 - Mar 8, 2026"
week: 10
---

Mikkel and I got sick.

We got COVID and we didn’t get much done. \
Our hubris still made us try, but as it turns out, vibe-coding on Nyquil is unsurprisingly a terrible idea.

Anywho, the tone of these posts have leaned increasingly personal, and I do wish it not, but for this week it seems I have little choice.

The intent behind this series is accountability. \
It is surprisingly hard to work for yourself. \
It is easier to work for another, whether that be your boss, your family, or your peers.

Having someone hold you accountable helps. \
As strange as it is, I find it easier to let myself down than to let down another.

&nbsp;

And it seems like its working. \
We have worked hard: the last 10 weeks were productive, one of the more productive times we've ever had. And yet, I do wish we did more.

There are a few times we failed. \
That may seem odd to say now, given that we’re in an early phase where success (and failure) is hard to define, but I still think it true to say.

There were days where impatience made us not think and write crappy code. \
There were days where anxiety led us to invent features and over-engineer. \
There were days where apathy made us accept the "good enough" and not challenge the norm.

And while not all of our outcomes are in our hands, the above decisions are.

&nbsp;

To end on. \
When we left our jobs in April of 2025, the preeminent thought was that of fear. \
We thought that it was the last chance to start a business before AI scaled too far.

We believe that less now. \
But regardless of if and when the singularity will come, the urgency it imparted remains the same.

This is the last job I’ll ever work — and I won't spend a single moment of it insincere.

Thank you. \
—baepaul
