---
title: "A rational decision"
date: "Mar 15 - Mar 22, 2026"
week: 12
---

I do wonder if we’re doing enough. \
I’m not one to get impostor syndrome, typically being self-assured enough to not care, but the thought has struck me.

I feel lacking. \
I feel like I need to be more.

It isn’t a bad thought, though it certainly is uncomfortable. \
It reminds me of my youth: the time spent as a self-hating prepubescent teen.

But admittedly ironic. \
The last 12 weeks was probably one of the most productive periods of my life.

And perhaps that is why. \
We did nothing but build, and in that process, realized how much it is that we don’t know and how much we have yet to grow.

I feel a bit of remorse. \
Instead of wasting time on corporate politics and romanticizing other careers, I wish I was sincere about engineering sooner. 
I wish I continued mucking around with Arch, lurking in weird grayhat IRC channels, and trying to write my own text editor in C. 

But be that as it may, there is no point in lamenting the past. \
I am building now — and grateful for it.

&nbsp;

I’ve used the sentence “a better GitHub” to describe gitdot. \
That really means three things:
1. gitdot will be faster than GitHub
2. gitdot will be more reliable than GitHub
3. gitdot will be better designed than GitHub

That might seem too little. \
You may ask “isn’t there anything else?”, “what’s your core differentiator,” or “what about AI?”

And to that, our answer is that we will first do the fundamentals and we will do them really really well.

It isn’t particularly hard to come up with a novel idea. \
If you give us the prompt of AI, version control, and software engineering, I could come up with half-a-dozen palatable ideas for an AI-native VCS. I could postulate and say that Git wasn’t built for agents, or that we’re making a GitHub for agents, or that we’re even getting rid of code all together.

We’ve tried, we would know. \
And despite us having been burnt from it, it is still scary to do something different.

With a novel idea, there is a faith that you place in it. \
That if this thing comes to fruition, if AI develops the way we predict and the market need develops, that we will win.

But without, there is nothing to hold our faith but ourselves.

gitdot has to be better. \
And it is on us to turn that statement into a truth.

&nbsp;

That is quite hard to do. \
There is a perception that new software is better than old, but the truth is the opposite.

New software is untested, often hastily written, and lacks the proof of time that incumbents have. Most software written by startups is bad software. It breaks often, it is unreliable, it is slow, and it is poorly designed.

Startups win by novelty. \
They win by the why now: by competing in new markets where there is no incumbent advantage.

And as much as we developers shit on GitHub nowadays, what they built is impressive.
It is a lot of infrastructure and a lot of engineering that is easy to underestimate, but as we’re now actually doing it, quite the mountain of work that they’ve done.

So it would be odd for a customer to choose gitdot over GitHub anytime soon. \
We may get some, but really, it is an _irrational_ decision that early adopters make. \
Why would you choose an untested, unknown product made by a company you don’t recognize?

There could be several small reasons initially, such as “our team uses stacked diffs and GitHub doesn’t support it,” or simply “I like gitdot’s design,” or even “I just really don’t like GitHub,” but no matter what, the reasons for will be few compared to the reasons against.

We recognize that and also know that is unlikely that we will be the rational decision anytime soon.
But we also see not a single reason that we cannot be in the long-term.

So till then.

Thank you. \
—baepaul

(p.s., we spent a lot of time this week getting the details right. I don’t quite want to spoil them yet, but you’ll see them soon).
