---
title: "OOTO"
date: "Mar 29 - Apr 05, 2026"
week: 14
---

I took a vacation this week.

The first few days were a bit hard. \
I was still working, and even when I wasn’t, the thought of it was always with me.

There was some guilt about it. \
Some fear that I should be working and some notion that I have to.

But then I went to the beach, climbed in the desert, and laughed with friends. \
I had fun.

&nbsp;

And on the flight back, a thought struck. \
Some part of me was a bit scared to go back.

We have a launch planned soon and launches are something that make me anxious.

As much as I take pride in what we do, I also recognize that our value is determined solely by our customers.
I could love our product and I could mean that sincerely, but if nobody else does its value is nil.

So it is natural to have expectations. \
It would be nice if the launch went well. \
It would be nice if people liked what we’re doing.

That’s something I can’t deny. \
And even writing this now, there is a certain fear about it: a fear of failure.

&nbsp;

But — the point is different. \
The point is to have fun.

There was a conversation I had with a designer (slash VC?) in the chaos after demo day. He was interested in us because of our predilection for design and I was interested in him for the same reasons.

We talked a good bit about design and eventually the conversation steered itself to branding, something I knew little about. 

So I asked him “what is a brand?” half-expecting some kind of edgy answer.

His answer surprised me. \
“A brand is a bank of trust.”

And it is like me to hear one thing and to think of another.

If a brand is a bank of trust, then what are we?  \
What is this thing that we’re doing? \
What is a company?

&nbsp;

My answer is that it’s this. \
It is the words that I’m writing now.

When I look back on what it is that we’ve done, I hope to do so with love. \
I want to know that it was time spent well: working hard, being honest, and having fun.

That is the point. \
That is the point of everything that I do.

It is to have fun.

&nbsp;

Maybe that statement strikes you as controversial, and perhaps that is telling of the norms that we live in, but it is the truth.

As nice as the beach was, work is better. \
It is way more fun to work hard than just about anything else.

When I landed in New York last night, I felt grateful. \
To know that there is no place that I’d rather be and nothing else that I’d rather do.

&nbsp;

So yeah.

We’re going to have fun. \
We’re going to build something great and have fun doing it.

Thank you, \
—baepaul.
