---
title: "The Lappnor project"
date: "Apr 05 - Apr 12, 2026"
week: 15
---

A short one, because well, we are busy.

A few years ago, I was climbing at the Gunks with some friends. \
It was the end of the day, and while walking back on carriage road, a shout echoed.

"Hey man, do you have some electrolytes?"

That voice belonged to Adam Shahar, one of the strongest climbers in the world, and lo and behold, after providing him with some coconut-flavored Bodyarmor, he made quick work of a V12.

&nbsp;

I saw him recently on YouTube, where he was attempting to send one of the hardest climbs in the world: burden of dreams.

That climb, while notoriously hard, is admittedly his style, so he came in with the goal of doing the climb. That didn't quite work out, and so, the video ended up not being a story of sends and success, but an all-too-real tale of failure in the face of expectations.



It was hard not to see myself in that.

While not as strong as Adam, I must admit, I do consider myself smart. \
And I do believe that smart people are capable of solving hard problems.

So high expectations is something I've grown accustomed to. \
You could say that it was what made me who I am, which is probably somewhat true, but it also does come at a cost.

It makes you afraid of failure. \
And that is what really sucks.

&nbsp;

I won't claim to have all the answers, as that is part of my psychology that is very much being re-built, but what I find helps is being grounded.

Adam is really strong, but he was trying to send the hardest climb in the world. \
I am pretty smart, but I am trying to kill a billion dollar company with just two devs.

I kinda think I can (sorta really think I can), but it's quite freeing to say that.

To be free of the burden of dreams.

&nbsp;

And with that, what we're working on this week is something we know is important. \
It's been on the brain for a while, something since Async really, and that's reviews.

I think the single most important problem in engineering is that of reviews. \
And — I'm pretty confident we can do it.

So goal this week: build the best review tool in the world :)


Thank you, \
—baepaul.
