---
title: "How we write code"
date: "Feb 22 - Mar 1, 2026"
week: 9
---

Writing is feeling a chore.

Last week, I posted a heap dump of my caffeine-addled brain. \
This week, I feel a temptation to do the same.

Writing is hard. \
It is painful, it is tedious, it is the definition of the word ordeal. \
It is an act of extravagance, one bereft of benefit following little rationale.

It is a question as to why I write the way that I do.  \
I certainly do not need to.

I could write the way that I journal: a stream of scribbles and drawls that bear little meaning to anyone but me. \
I could use AI: feed our commits into Claude, ask for a tidy summarization, and touch up the corners to make it like me. \
Both would be more efficient, and depending on your choice of metric, may even be quantifiably better.

But my answer as to why I do not is that I cannot. \
I seem to have developed an intolerance, one that makes me rather ill when I write things that I don’t like. \
I feel bad. I feel a sense of shame and I wish to avert my eyes from my own artifacts.

Writing is something I know to be facetious. \
The only value it has is what meaning I attribute to it. \
If I do not care about writing, then I am not writing at all. 

So. \
Today, I will attempt to write well.

&nbsp;

I have been attempting to do more. \
I have given myself the prompt “how can I become a better engineer?” and my underpowered LLM is working overtime to come up with answers.

I do enjoy this sort of thing. There is a thrill in betterment. \
The belief that things can be better and that we can better too. 

The idea is a popular one, judging by the size of the self-help section in bookstores, and is understandably so. Few people are content to do the same thing over and over again. People get bored — and change, as frivolous as it may be, staves off ennui.

Coding has changed a lot. \
The act of has changed.

Before, it was an activity I looked forward to. \
It would be the end of day, I would be exhausted from incessant meetings and pointless pings, but as tired as I was, once I started coding, I had fun. I’d put on my headphones, start blasting TPAB, and get lost in the flow of syntax errors and iterative thinking.

Now, it’s different. \
Surprisingly, I find it harder.  \
And strangely, I think it can be less fun too.

Let me first describe my own characteristics as an engineer. \
I’m fast. And although I’d consider myself decent at most aspects of engineering, by and far, speed is my defining trait.

If Mikkel was a heavy-weight thinking model that ruminates for minutes before outputting a single word reply, I am a low-latency bootleg LLM optimized for time-to-first-token response.

As funny as it seems now, that used to matter. \
Engineering managers loved the “10x engineer”, the guy who got things done in a pinch, the guy who did things in half the time others took. The number of lines of code you produced used to matter. It correlated with how much you delivered — and in most companies, engineers were ranked by their deliverables.

I stood to benefit a lot from that system. \
I typed fast, could recall most library signatures from memory, and had an awfully over-optimized developer setup. 
And though I knew I wasn’t the best at solving truly hard problems, I did consider myself to be one of the fastest.

All pretty pointless now. \
That isn’t to say that speed doesn’t matter anymore, it still does, but being fast is less about fluency with your developer setup and more about how quickly you can arrive at a prompt with certainty.

Coding agents have made it awfully easy to generate code with no effort and I find that to be incredibly dangerous. 
It corrupts your understanding of your codebase and I find that the one thing you need to optimize for nowadays is your own mental acuity.

There’s a quote by Orwell I find apt. \
“If people cannot write well, they cannot think well, and if they cannot think well, others will do their thinking for them.”

Writing is not the same as coding, and not everyone needs to write to think (Mikkel sure doesn’t), but I do take the above to heart. 
The tools we use should empower us to do more, not cripple us to do less.

&nbsp;

There is an arms race in San Francisco where increasingly larger companies are building increasingly expensive tools all chasing the promise of productivity, but I do find the term nebulous to define.

Tools are personal. \
Productivity is personal. \
Productivity is an output of perception. 

Many times we think that a certain process is more productive simply because we like the process itself.
There is nothing inherent about TDD that makes you go faster, but perhaps you really like TDD so you’re inclined to believe so. 

Likewise, how a product feels also influences our perception. \
Claude Code without a streaming UI would strike you as slow or even clunky. \
Cursor without tab auto-complete may have never become the product that it is now.

Coding agents are incredibly powerful, but also unintuitive. \
There _are_ bad ways to use them, and unfortunately, the bad ways tend to be the easiest ways.

Often, I find myself caught in the trap of convenience and spawning many an agent to do many a thing, only to end up discarding most of the work after realizing that it wasn’t something that I really needed to be done. The cost of work has become cheap and that means it’s easy to do bad work but think oneself productive.

We’ve tried many a thing with coding agents (our company was initially building one), so while we know better than to think we know better, we have thought a lot about them. 

Here are our thoughts as of now.

&nbsp;

## 1. Read and revise code
It is a bit surprising that this needs to be said, but code is still important.

There are arguments that it isn’t. That prompts are simply a higher-level language, just as we write Rust now instead of assembly. But I don’t think that analogy is apt. 

Prompts aren’t compiled. \
Code is. 

That determinism is important, because when we need to reason about our system, we need answers, not guesses. We need to know for certain that there is a bug in authentication and that that feature wasn’t implemented last week.

Code doesn’t bullshit you. It doesn’t lie, it doesn’t hallucinate, it just states what it does and it does so with exacting precision.

So while agents are an incredible tool for learning about a codebase, I am skeptical that there will be a higher-level interface for programming anytime soon (unless, of course, somebody makes another language).

And there’s a question of how much writing “clean code” matters anymore, given that we’re doing little of the writing now.

I still find it does.

Coding agents are a bit like Capuchin monkeys: what they see, they do. \
If you let them loose in a well-structured code base where there is consistency in the naming of files, logic in the structure of methods, and rigor in the separation of concerns, they will do very well. Yet, if you do the same in a generative fashion, where you prompt agent after agent to build upon its artifacts, the codebase quickly becomes a sprawl. 

The code produced may be functional and you may even argue that it’s just as good. \
If it works, it works.

But I think the real detriment is the effect that it has on you. \
You are no longer able to reason about your codebase, because well, it isn’t yours.

I’m quite scared to do that. \
Knowing what works, knowing what doesn’t, and knowing how things work is important. \
It makes me think better — and that, is the one thing I’ve always optimized for.

So just as I clear the clutter in my apartment every Sunday, I do the same for our code.
Your codebase is where your ideas live, and while you certainly may disagree, I think you should keep it clean.

&nbsp;

## 2. You only prompt once
A trait of coding agents is that its value follows a bit of U-curve.

It does the most for people who could do the least. \
It does the least for people who could do the most.

Before you take that as a bad stab at philosophy, I’ll explain.

If we think about value as the potential time saved on a given task, we can define a space of tasks ordered from “easy” to “hard.” The definition of easy or hard depends on the individual: I was very useless at writing Rust a few weeks ago (still sort of am, in all honesty), but quite good at Typescript.

If I were to spin up a coding agent to implement a feature in our Rust backend, the potential value capture would be enormous: it would save me a few hours of learning Rust and debugging compiler errors. That’s opposed to me instructing an agent to scaffold a new page in our UI, which while would be convenient, would perhaps only save me a few minutes in absolute time.

This line of reasoning shows often in AI demos and first impressions, where the “wow” moment is usually people vibe-coding a TailwindCSS React app. 

Many engineers, particularly those who don’t have much front-end experience, find that incredibly impressive.

So you would think that the maximal way to use AI is to ask it to do what you cannot. \
But I’ve learned that’s the opposite of what you should do.

The reason why is that agents do not have agency. \
You’re still accountable: if one of your agents does something shitty, it’s you to blame.

That means that you need to be able to audit work, which also implies that you’re capable of doing it in the first place.

And as to why I think you should only prompt once, the ethos is a bit similar to why Dijkstra supposed only ever wrote code with a pen.

You should have a clear understanding of what to do before you do it.

Asking an agent to do something that you don’t know how to do is only going to result in misinterpretation and a sprawl of code inscrutable to review. And taking something and determining whether it is good or bad is a _harder_ task than it is to do the same task from scratch, especially when your understanding is nascent.

Imagine a world where we hire new grads, give them push permissions, and assign them to do PRs as their onboarding task.

That seems to me a comedy — and a terrible way to develop skills for engineering.

So only prompt once: when you are certain of what it is you want and how you want it done. And if you do not know what that is, learn.

&nbsp;

## 3. Do one thing at a time
There is a temptation to do many things at once. \
The products we use are pushing us that way: the number of notifications we receive has only grown in the last decade and probably only ever will.

So when coding, and especially when waiting on an agent’s reply, it is natural to do something else. The number of people I see at cafes that issue a task to Claude and then immediately alt-tab to TikTok is staggering.

And though not the same distraction, the sin I reach for is to try and make myself more productive by doing something in the meanwhile. That’s usually picking at some email, organizing my to-dos, or fixing some nit in the codebase. 

That parallelism seems like it's a good thing, but I’ve started to think differently.

Most things don’t matter. \
Usually only a few things do (or really, just one). \
And that one thing is what I should devote my attention to.

Does it really matter whether I fixed a bunch of small bugs in parallel?
Maybe that’s nice to do when I’m bug bashing, but when I’m working on a feature that I know is important (like CI), is it really wise to split my time?
And even though the agent may be latent, would it not be better to just take a break or think more deeply instead?

We made this mistake with our first idea, where our product was designed to just take a Sprint board and burn down all the trivial tasks that engineers were doing. 

Though we ended up pivoting away for different reasons, I do wonder if the truth there was that those tasks _never_ mattered. And whether they were done by developers, done by agents, or not done at all, the bottom-line would have never changed.

It is often a fear of confronting what is hard that leads us to chase the trivial instead.

Anywho. \
To week 10.

Thank you. \
—baepaul
