---
title: "v0"
date: "Feb 1 - Feb 8, 2026"
week: 6
---

There are two artists at a table.

One, a recent sensation in Korea, a young vocalist known for her unique tone and disregard of norm. \
The other, a venerable elder, a ballad singer responsible for the songs that sad drunk Koreans sing.

Pork jowl sizzles and soju glasses clink.

The younger mentions she’s planning to open her first concert in Korea. \
The older offers some unsolicited advice.

He caveats “you may not want to hear this, and I may be a boomer for saying it” but says it anyways. \
“Don’t just do what you want to do. Do what the audience wants to hear.”

He expounds and he mollifies, saying artistry is still important, but even so, to me watching the scene through the glow of my TV, the point was made.

&nbsp;

Ego drives developers. \
There are few other answers as to why we build yet another Javascript framework or CI/CD platform every few months. But no matter what the premise of a product is, and how tangible its differences really are, there is an undeniable tendency to think that what we build is better because it is our own.

There’s been many attempts to reinvent the wheel. \
With AI giving just cause to just about everything now, all sorts of wheels are being built. The prefix “AI-native” has been applied to just about every noun in the startup dictionary. AI-native infrastructure, AI-native frameworks, AI-native programming languages even, and so forth.

That’s not necessarily a bad thing. \
Reinventing the wheel is fun, and though most attempts end up in failure where the only customers are its creators, each attempt teaches you something. It tells you what’s important, what’s not, and what ideas just might be worth trying again.

But that doesn’t mean it’s a good thing either. \
Be it in music, art, or technology, there are those brave enough to try something new. I admire them — and can’t deny my want to be like them. But as much as I enjoy things that are different, that alone isn’t enough.

It has to be better. \
Undeniably and irrefutably. \
By some axis, or to someone, it has to be a superior product.

&nbsp;

That is an awful lot of pressure.

I don’t intend for these posts to be Paul and Mikkel’s disease diaries, but my old friends, stress-induced TMJD and chronic neck pain, greeted me fondly this week.

I care too much. \
I find it incredibly hard not to. \
Something in me recoils violently at the thought. My face twitches, my traps tense, and my mind races to find ways to justify my idiosyncrasy.

No matter what it is, if I do something, I want to do it well.

To do less when the temptation is to do more. \
To do more when the norm is to do enough. \
To do better — for each and every thing we do.

And while I’d like to think that my perfectionist streak isn’t a bad thing, that isn’t right either.
It is possible to care too much. 

The more you care about your work, the less likely you are to be objective about it.
You stop seeing your product for what it is and begin seeing it as a reflection of yourself.
That’s bad. Really bad.

And no matter how much I care, at the end of the day, it our customers that will define our value.

But thankfully, the decision 
No matter how much you care, it is your customers that define your value.
Not you nor anyone else.

&nbsp;

So in short, I spent a day fixing bugs (of which there are many more left), another procrastinating over details (like making our onboarding pages work without JS), and the rest of it agonizing over CI.

I do feel reticent to share my thinking, as we’re very much still in the air of uncertainty, but here goes nonetheless:
1. CI will be on by default
2. CI must pass to push to main
3. CI must propose fixes, not just identify errors
