---
title: "Engineering"
date: "Feb 8 - Feb 15, 2026"
week: 7
---

We spent this week engineering.

We spent it fixing bugs, refactoring code, and writing plenty more. We spent it arguing over import ordering, debating service interfaces, and defining API shapes. 

Our actual progress was substantial — it was a good week with much headway made, but rather than recite the nitty-gritty of what we did, I thought it more interesting to write about the act of: engineering.

I’ll caveat that this is opinionated. \
Many engineers tend to be quite pedantic (the sort to write blogs) and it seems that I am no exception to the rule. 

Engineering is changing, and there is much talk, and anxiety, about what the future of the field is. 
But rather than proclaim yet another vision as to what it will be, I want to record a perspective on what it was.

I want to write it here: a perspective on what it means to be a good engineer. \
So without ado.


&nbsp;

## 1. Good engineers care

They care about code. \
They care about variable names, they care about formatting, they care about structure. They want their code to be clean — for it to be legible and for it to be elegant. They get incredibly irritated if it is not: dirty code drives them crazy. And though they know it's irrational, they feel the compulsion to refactor code incessantly.

They also care about _how_ to write code. \
This includes things like editors, (e.g., Vi vs Emacs), things like languages (e.g., Python vs Ruby), and things like methodologies (e.g., TDD). Their opinions may differ, but it is certain that they will have one, and a strong one at that.

And it goes without saying, but they care about _what_ their code does. \
They care about how fast it is, they care about how reliable it is, they care about what it can, what it cannot, and what it should and should not do.

They get emotional over it. The thought of their code not functioning the way they intended gives them intense shame. The thought of someone using their code in a way that they didn’t anticipate may peeve them. But above all, the thought of their code being unused makes them sad.

&nbsp;

## 2. Good engineers are right, a lot

They can tell at a glance when something is wrong. \
When asked a question, they often reply immediately and are almost always right too. But they know when they don’t know — even more so than they take pride in being right, they are paranoid of being wrong.

So they believe that there is a right and that there is a wrong. \
They believe in objectivity: that given a set of constraints, an optimal solution exists.

They tend to dislike the subjective, the fields in which there is no right answer, and often attempt to either impose a system of order upon it or abandon it entirely. This makes them rather fierce debate partners, with typical topics ranging from best programming language to coffee brewing techniques.

Mikkel is a good example of this. \
It is annoying to argue with Mikkel because I usually end up realizing that I am wrong. But as painful as it is, it is undeniably useful too.

&nbsp;

## 3. Good engineers have taste

They have good hunches. \
They choose the right abstractions for the right problems, recognizing when a one-off edge case is symptomatic of a larger pattern and when a seemingly costly feature can be solved by a simple hack. 

They know when to do things properly, when to spend time building systems that scale, and when to hack, when to do the simplest thing possible as quickly as possible. They know how to do both: building fast and building slow, and they do both well.

And the best engineers have some uncanny sense of how long code will last. They know that there is no perfect solution, and that the best solution is defined by the context of its asks.

A few examples are Git, which recognizes that a distributed VCS _is_ open-source, Rust, a language bold enough to make memory management best practices into compiler errors, and most recently, Claude Code, which rather than introducing new abstractions for code, simply reuses POSIX commands.


&nbsp;

The above may change, and there may come a time where I reread this post with a clarity that only hindsight brings, but as of now I see no reason to revise.

Thank you \
—baepaul.
